# LanguageProfiencyAndPain
With 1 in 5 Americans experiencing chronic pain (Yong) and 2 in 5 Americans having Limited English Proficiency (LEP) (US Census Bureau), about 1 in 12.5 Americans or 26 million Americans are both LEP and suffer from chronic pain. The support system for these individuals is the same lackluster system used for all other medical conditions. Since most conditions have physical signs which doctors can use to treat patients, the language barrier proves to be difficult, but does not completely prevent any treatment. But, for chronic pain, a language barrier can have even worse impacts because there is no structural biomedical cause of it so patients must rely on their communication abilities to receive treatment. This communication barrier can lead to harmful effects on pain management: one study showed that postoperative children with LEP parents had 45% greater pain scores after treatment compared to English speaking patients (Jimenez). Yet, despite the large population affected by this, very little documentation exists on the communication of chronic pain for Limited English Proficient individuals in America.  Last quarter, I wrote a paper called “Limited English Proficiency and Chronic Pain Treatment” where I added my own research to this topic by interviewing two pain physicians at Stanford Medicine.

The other missing piece to this equation was the lack of quantitative data surrounding this topic to understand how much the language barrier impacts the communication of pain. Here, I attempt to add to this data with more quantitative data with how a language barrier impacts chronic pain communication. My main question is: what is the minimum proficiency level that a person needs to fully communicate their pain? In other words, at what level of proficiency is there a statistically significant difference between the communication of pain of a non-fluent speaker to a fluent speaker?
